README.md, before:


Remote Rapid Visual Screening (RRVS) Tool
=========================================

Contact: Marc Wieland marc.wieland@gfz-potsdam.de
         Michael Haas michael.haas@gfz-potsdam.de


INSTALLATION
------------

In order to run the application locally do the following:

A) Setup virtualenvironment and add the project source code
1. $ sudo pip install virtualenv
2. go to root of project folder and run $ virtualenv venv
   this creates a new folder venv to hold the virtualenvironment
3. run $ venv/bin/activate to start the enviroment ($ deactivate to stop it)
   now you can install python libraries localy in a virtual environment 
   not affecting the host systems python libraries.
4. $ venv/bin/pip install Flask Flask-WTF Flask-SQLAlchemy Flask-Security Flask-Login Flask-RESTful geoalchemy2 geojson
5. copy the rrvstool folder that holds the flask application into the the venv directory

B) Setup the database
1. Create a new database 'rrvstool_db' in PostgreSQL >9.1
   and run rrvstool_db.sql
2. Populate the database tables (you can use the rrvstool_testdata.sql script to add some testdata)

C) OPTIONAL: Run the application on an apache2 server with mod_wsgi
1.Install mod_wsgi for apache2
  $ sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi
2. Activate wsgi for apache2
  $ sudo a2enmod wsgi
3. Create a virtual host for the app
  $ sudo touch /etc/apache2/sites-available/rrvs
4.Add following content (to run on Port 8080):

Listen 8080
<VirtualHost *:8080>
        ServerName localhost
        WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/rrvs/rrvs.wsgi
        <Directory /var/www/rrvs/webapp>
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
        Alias /static /var/www/rrvs/webapp/static
        <Directory /var/www/rrvs/webapp/static/>
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
        LogLevel warn
        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>

5. Activate the site
  $ sudo a2ensite rrvs

6. Panoramic images are served to the app on a virtual directory called /pano from a different place than document root, you'll have to write an Alias in the alias_module part of the apache httpd.conf:

    Alias /pano /path/to/your/directory
    <Directory /path/to/your/directory/>
        Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
        Require all granted
    </Directory>

Make sure the permissions for this directory (and all it's parents) ar set to 755:
chmod 755 /path
chmod 755 /path/to 
...

The directory should also have it's own index.html

7. Reload apache2
$ sudo service apache2 restart

WARNING: Currently the app is designed as being open to all IP-Addresses!
webapp/__init__.py app.run(host="0.0.0.0")

You can enter the site via localhost:8080

D) Run the application
1. $ python runserver.py


MODIFYING DATAENTRY FORM
------------------------

A short step-by-step guideline on how to add a new QuerySelectField to the dataentry form:

1. models.py: 
#define a new column in the db model
mat_type = db.Column(db.String(254))

2. forms.py: 
#define a new field in the form
mat_type_field = QuerySelectField("Material Type", query_factory=getMatType, get_label='description', allow_blank=True)
			 
#add a new query factory which fills the dropdown menu
def getMatType(): 
	return dic_attribute_value.query.filter_by(attribute_type_code='MAT_TYPE') 

3. rrvsform.html: 
#add the new field to the html template
{{ rrvs_form.mat_type_field.label }}
{{ rrvs_form.mat_type_field }}
			 
#add new return value from .getJSON function
$('select[name="mat_type_field"]').val(data.mat_type_gid);

4. routes.py:
#in update_rrvsform() define the query attribute_value for the select fields
mat_type_val = ve_resolution1.query.filter_by(gid=gid_val).first().mat_type

# and the return gid
mat_type_gid = dic_attribute_value.query.filter_by(attribute_value=mat_type_val).first().gid,

#in rrvsform() add a new entry to the row.update() function to update database with form content
ve_resolution1.mat_type: rrvs_form.mat_type_field.data.attribute_value,

Commit message:

1) Added script which inserts a shapefile with footprints to rem db. 2) Added some more instructions

README.md, after:


Remote Rapid Visual Screening (RRVS) Tool
=========================================

Contact: Marc Wieland marc.wieland@gfz-potsdam.de
         Michael Haas michael.haas@gfz-potsdam.de


INSTALLATION
------------

In order to run the application locally do the following:

A) Setup virtualenvironment and add the project source code
1. $ sudo pip install virtualenv
2. go to root of project folder and run $ virtualenv venv
   this creates a new folder venv to hold the virtualenvironment
3. run $ venv/bin/activate to start the enviroment ($ deactivate to stop it)
   now you can install python libraries localy in a virtual environment 
   not affecting the host systems python libraries.
4. $ venv/bin/pip install Flask Flask-WTF Flask-SQLAlchemy Flask-Security Flask-Login Flask-RESTful geoalchemy2 geojson
5. copy the rrvstool folder that holds the flask application into the the venv directory

B) Setup the database
For production:
1. Create and connect to a database called rem on the server (or adjust the name accordingly in the rrvs_config.py)
2. run the templating script for a rem database from within the database (https://github.com/GFZ-Centre-for-Early-Warning/REM_DBschema)
3. run the extend_rem_db.sql script to extend the schema for the rrvs functionality
4. populate the database with image and survey information (metadata.sql files as created with the PERManEnt makalu.gfz-potsdam.de:/media/EWC/git/permanent.git)
5. populate the database with assets (building footprints) by using fp2rem_db.py
6. create users and tasks in the users schema of the database

For demo:
1. Create a new database 'rrvstool_db' in PostgreSQL >9.1
   and run rrvstool_db.sql
2. Populate the database tables (you can use the rrvstool_testdata.sql script to add some testdata)

C) OPTIONAL: Run the application on an apache2 server with mod_wsgi
1.Install mod_wsgi for apache2
  $ sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi
2. Activate wsgi for apache2
  $ sudo a2enmod wsgi
3. Create a virtual host for the app
  $ sudo touch /etc/apache2/sites-available/rrvs
4.Add following content (to run on Port 8080):

Listen 8080
<VirtualHost *:8080>
        ServerName localhost
        WSGIScriptAlias / /var/www/rrvs/rrvs.wsgi
        <Directory /var/www/rrvs/webapp>
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
        Alias /static /var/www/rrvs/webapp/static
        <Directory /var/www/rrvs/webapp/static/>
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
        LogLevel warn
        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>

5. Activate the site
  $ sudo a2ensite rrvs

6. Panoramic images are served to the app on a virtual directory called /pano which can be a different place than document root, you'll have to write an Alias in the alias_module part of the apache httpd.conf (to the virtual host you created above in Point 4):

    Alias /pano /path/to/your/directory
    <Directory /path/to/your/directory/>
        Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
        Require all granted
    </Directory>

Make sure the permissions for this directory (and all it's parents) are set to 755:
chmod 755 /path
chmod 755 /path/to 
...

The directory should also have it's own index.html
Make sure that in your database image.img.repository is the path to the images relative to /path/to/your/directory. If for example your
images are at /path/to/your/directory/survey image.img.repository would be '/survey'.

7. Reload apache2
$ sudo service apache2 restart

WARNING: Currently the app is designed as being open to all IP-Addresses!
webapp/__init__.py app.run(host="0.0.0.0")

You can enter the site via localhost:8080

D) Run the application
1. $ python runserver.py


MODIFYING DATAENTRY FORM
------------------------

A short step-by-step guideline on how to add a new QuerySelectField to the dataentry form:

1. models.py: 
#define a new column in the db model
mat_type = db.Column(db.String(254))

2. forms.py: 
#define a new field in the form
mat_type_field = QuerySelectField("Material Type", query_factory=getMatType, get_label='description', allow_blank=True)
			 
#add a new query factory which fills the dropdown menu
def getMatType(): 
	return dic_attribute_value.query.filter_by(attribute_type_code='MAT_TYPE') 

3. rrvsform.html: 
#add the new field to the html template
{{ rrvs_form.mat_type_field.label }}
{{ rrvs_form.mat_type_field }}
			 
#add new return value from .getJSON function
$('select[name="mat_type_field"]').val(data.mat_type_gid);

4. routes.py:
#in update_rrvsform() define the query attribute_value for the select fields
mat_type_val = ve_resolution1.query.filter_by(gid=gid_val).first().mat_type

# and the return gid
mat_type_gid = dic_attribute_value.query.filter_by(attribute_value=mat_type_val).first().gid,

#in rrvsform() add a new entry to the row.update() function to update database with form content
ve_resolution1.mat_type: rrvs_form.mat_type_field.data.attribute_value,
